ANNUAL LEAVE POLICY
Effective Date: January 1, 2024
Policy Owner: Human Resources Department

1. PURPOSE
This policy sets out the entitlements and procedures for annual leave for all full-time and part-time employees of Acme Corporation.

2. ENTITLEMENT
Full-time employees are entitled to 20 days of paid annual leave per calendar year. Part-time employees receive a pro-rated entitlement based on their contracted hours. Employees in their first year of service accrue leave at a rate of 1.67 days per month worked. After five years of continuous service, the entitlement increases to 25 days per year.

3. CARRY-OVER
Employees may carry over a maximum of 5 unused leave days into the following calendar year. Carried-over days must be used by March 31 of the following year or they will be forfeited. Exceptions require written approval from the employee's line manager and HR.

4. APPLICATION PROCESS
Employees must submit leave requests through the HR self-service portal at least 5 working days in advance for leave of up to 3 days. Leave of more than 3 days requires at least 10 working days' notice. Requests are subject to manager approval and business requirements. Leave during peak business periods (December and end of financial year) requires at least 4 weeks' notice and is subject to capacity constraints.

5. PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
Public holidays are not counted as annual leave days. Employees required to work on a public holiday will receive a substitute day off in lieu, to be taken within 3 months.

6. LEAVE DURING NOTICE PERIOD
Employees who resign or are given notice may be required to take remaining annual leave during their notice period. Unused leave at termination will be paid out at the employee's basic daily rate.

7. SICK LEAVE INTERACTION
Annual leave that coincides with certified sick leave may be converted to sick leave upon submission of a valid medical certificate within 5 working days.

8. CONTACT
For questions about annual leave entitlement or the application process, contact hr@acmecorp.com or the HR helpdesk on extension 4400.
